>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, MARCH 1:
CONGRESS GEARS UP TO CONTINUE
THE DEBATE OVER FUNDING HOMELAND
SECURITY.
HOW THE ARREST OF THREE MEN IN
NEW YORK AND FLORIDA THIS WEEK
REVEALS THE DIFFICULTIES OF
FIGHTING ISIS AT HOME.
AND, IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
FROM OHIO: THIEVES STEALING
VALUABLE METAL, AND PUTTING THE
PUBLIC IN DANGER.
>> THE WOULD-BE-THIEVES CUT THE
LINE SO IT DANGLED OVER THE
INTERSTATE.
WHEN AN S.U.V. GOT TOO CLOSE,
THERE WAS A BRIGHT FLASH THAT
BLEW OUT THE WINDSHIELD AND
KNOCKED THE DRIVER UNCONSCIOUS.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE FIGHT OVER FUNDING FOR THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
STARTS ALL OVER AGAIN ON CAPITOL
HILL TOMORROW.
CONGRESS HAS GIVEN ITSELF UNTIL
MIDNIGHT FRIDAY TO COME UP WITH
SOME KIND OF AGREEMENT.
BUT THE RIFT AMONG REPUBLICANS
CONTINUES TO ENDANGER ANY DEAL.
A CONTINGENT OF HOUSE
REPUBLICANS IS REFUSING TO FUND
THE AGENCY UNLESS THE BILL MOVES
TOWARD BLOCKING THE PRESIDENT'S
IMMIGRATION REFORM PLAN.
THE INTRA-PARTY DIVISION PUTS
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER IN A
TOUGH POSITION: SIDE WITH HOUSE
MODERATES AND SENATE REPUBLICANS
TO FUND THE AGENCY, OR SIDE WITH
MORE CONSERVATIVE MEMBERS TO
CHALLENGE THE IMMIGRATION
POLICY.
BUT THIS MORNING BOEHNER TOLD
"FACE THE NATION" HIS PARTY IS
UNITED IN ITS GOAL TO STAND UP
TO PRESIDENT OBAMA.
>> I MADE IT CLEAR WE'RE GOING
TO DO EVERYTHING WE COULD TO
BLOCK THE PRESIDENT'S EXECUTIVE
OVER-REACH, AND THAT'S THE BASIS
OF THE PROBLEM WE'RE TRYING TO
DEAL WITH.
>> Sreenivasan: DEMOCRATS STILL
HOPE TO VOTE ON A LONG-TERM
FUNDING BILL WITHOUT TIES TO
IMMIGRATION.
>> WE WANT A CLEAN BILL.
WE HAVE PAST TAKEN VOTES ON A
CLEAN BILL, IT'S WELL KNOWN.
AND I SEE NOTHING ELSE
HAPPENING, OTHER THAN A CLEAN
BILL.
>> Sreenivasan: ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU LEFT
FOR THE UNITED STATES THIS
MORNING, PREPARING FOR HIS
CONTROVERSIAL APPEARANCE BEFORE
CONGRESS ON TUESDAY.
HOUSE SPEAKER BOEHNER INVITED
NETANYAHU TO SPEAK, AND THIS
MORNING, SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY CALLED IT ODD THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION WASN'T INCLUDED
IN THE PROCESS.
BUT HE TOLD ABC'S "THIS WEEK"
THE WHITE HOUSE DOESN'T WANT TO
TURN THE VISIT INTO A "POLITICAL
FOOTBALL".
>> THE PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL
IS WELCOME TO SPEAK IN THE
UNITED STATES.
OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE A CLOSER
RELATIONSHIP WITH ISRAEL RIGHT
NOW IN TERMS OF SECURITY THAN IN
ANY TIME IN HISTORY.
>> Sreenivasan: TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF RUSSIANS MARCHED
THROUGH THE STREETS OF MOSCOW
TODAY, MOURNING THE DEATH OF ONE
OF PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN'S
MOST VOCAL CRITICS.
OPPOSITION LEADER BORIS NEMTSOV
WAS GUNNED DOWN JUST OUTSIDE THE
KREMLIN FRIDAY NIGHT.
TODAY MOURNERS PASSED THROUGH
METAL DETECTORS, THEN MARCHED
NEAR THE CRIME SCENE AMID A
MASSIVE POLICE PRESENCE.
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS ARE
INVESTIGATING SEVERAL MOTIVES,
INCLUDING WHETHER NEMTSOV WAS
ASSASSINATED BECAUSE OF HIS
CRITICISM OF PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN.
DOCTORS IN SIERRA LEONE ARE
REELING FROM A NEW WAVE OF EBOLA
VICTIMS.
SIERRA LEONE HAD SEEN A DROP IN
CASES AND EVEN PLANNED TO LIFT
TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS AND RE-OPEN
SCHOOLS.
BUT LAST MONTH, SICK FISHERMEN
RETURNED TO SHORE, SETTING OFF A
NEW SERIES OF 21-DAY
QUARANTINES.
THE COUNTRY'S OWN VICE PRESIDENT
HAS QUARANTINED HIMSELF AFTER
ONE OF HIS SECURITY GUARDS DIED
OF THE DISEASE.
HERE IN THE U.S., EBOLA
SURVIVOR, NURSE NINA PHAM, PLANS
TO SUE THE TEXAS HOSPITAL WHERE
SHE CONTRACTED THE DISEASE.
ATTORNEYS CLAIM THE HOSPITAL
DIDN'T PROPERLY TRAIN THE STAFF
TO DEAL WITH THE OUTBREAK.
EUROPEAN COUNTER-TERRORISM
INVESTIGATORS BELIEVE AT LEAST
SIXTY BRITISH WOMEN AND
SCHOOLGIRLS MAY HAVE TRAVELED TO
SYRIA TO JOIN ISIS.
FIVE OF THEM ARE REPORTEDLY 15
OR 16 YEARS OLD.
THREE OF THOSE BRITISH TEENS
WERE SPOTTED ON SECURITY VIDEO
WHILE TRAVELLING IN TURKEY LAST
MONTH.
TURKISH POLICE ARE SEARCHING FOR
THE GIRLS, BUT INVESTIGATORS
FEAR THEY'VE ALREADY CROSSED THE
BORDER INTO SYRIA.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE FIGHT
AGAINST ISIS HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES IN A MOMENT.
A NEW REPORT FROM THE UNITED
NATIONS SAYS AT LEAST 1,100
IRAQIS WERE KILLED IN FEBRUARY.
MORE THAN 600 OF THEM WERE
CIVILIANS.
THE U.N. BLAMES ISIS AND IS
CALLING ON FRACTURED IRAQI
LEADERS TO JOIN FORCES TO FIGHT
BACK.
BUT THERE'S ALSO SOME GOOD NEWS
OUT OF BAGHDAD TONIGHT-- IRAQ'S
NATIONAL MUSEUM HAS OFFICIALLY
RE-OPENED, 12 YEARS AFTER IT WAS
VANDALIZED IN THE AFTERMATH OF
THE U.S.-LED INVASION.
LOOTERS STOLE THE MUSEUM'S
ANTIQUITIES DURING THE FIGHTING,
BUT MANY OF THE OBJECTS HAVE
BEEN FOUND AND RETURNED.
THE OPENING COMES JUST AFTER
ISIS RELEASED VIDEO OF MILITANTS
DESTROYING STATUES IN MOSUL.
HYUNDAI IS RECALLING ALMOST
205,000 CARS BECAUSE THE POWER
STEERING COULD SUDDENLY STOP
WORKING.
THE RECALL COVERS THE 2008-TO-
2010 ELANTRA AND THE 2009-TO-
2010 ELANTRA TOURING.
HYUNDAI DID NOT MENTION ANY
ACCIDENTS OR INJURIES RELATED TO
THE STEERING PROBLEM.
YOU CAN FIND THE SPECIFIC CARS
GETTING RECALLED ON OUR WEBSITE,
AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: FEDERAL
INVESTIGATORS BELIEVE THEY'VE
MANAGED TO CAPTURE THREE
SUSPECTED ISIS SYMPATHIZERS
BEFORE THEY LAUNCHED AN ATTACK.
ON WEDNESDAY, U.S. LAW
ENFORCEMENT CHARGED THREE
BROOKLYN MEN WITH PROVIDING
MATERIAL SUPPORT TO A FOREIGN
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION.
TWO OF THE SUSPECTS ALLEGEDLY
PLANNED TO TRAVEL THOUSANDS OF
MILES TO FIGHT UNDER THE FLAG OF
THE ISLAMIC STATE.
IF THAT DIDN'T WORK, THEY
THREATENED TO CARRY OUT ATTACKS
IN THE UNITED STATES.
NEW YORK CITY POLICE
COMMISSIONER WILLIAM BRATTON
CHARACTERIZED THE ARRESTS
SAYING, "THIS IS REAL.
THIS IS THE CONCERN ABOUT THE
LONE WOLF."
WE ARE JOINED NOW FROM
WASHINGTON, D.C. BY ANDREW
GROSSMAN WHO HAS BEEN COVERING
THIS STORY FOR THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL.
SO ANDREW, HOW DID
THESE ARRESTS GO DOWN, WHAT
KIND OF TOOLS DID THEY USE
TO GET THEM?
>> WHAT WE SAW HERE WAS A
FAIRLY COMMON PATTERN THAT
LAW ENFORCEMENT IN.
U.S. HAS BEEN USING AGAINST
PEOPLE WHO MIGHT BE PLOTTING
TO CATCH ISIS OR OTHER
FOREIGN TERRORIST GROUPS.
THEY FIRST ATTRACTED
AUTHORITIES ATTENTION
ON-LINE WITH A POST ON AN
UZBEK LANGUAGE WEB SITE
ABOUT THREATENING TO KILL
THE PRESIDENT.
THAT GOT THE ATTENTION OF
THE SECRET SERVICE.
OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT IN NEW
YORK AND THEY BEGAN TO KEEP
AN EYE ON THESE GUYS,
EVENTUALLY PUT THEM IN TOUCH
WITH AN INFORMANT WITHOUT
WORKED WITH THEM, SORT OF
SUSSED OUT WHAT THEIR
INTENTIONS WERE, AS THEY GOT
CLOSER AND CLOSER, AT ONE
POINT ONE OF THESE MEN WAS
GOING TO GO GET ON A PLANE
AT J-- JFK THAT IS WHEN THEY
CAME AND MADE THE ARRESTS.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY THAT THEY DIDN'T
MAKE A THREAT TO THE LIFE OF
THE PRESIDENT THAT THEY
COULD HAVE GONE UNDETECTED
ALL TOGETHER.
>> THAT'S THE BIG WORRY
HERE.
I THINK THE PROLIFERATION OF
ON-LINE PROPAGANDA IS REALLY
A DOUBLE EDGED SWORD HERE.
IT'S LURING PEOPLE LIKE THIS
INTO-- IT GETS THEM
INTERESTED IF GOING TO JOIN
ONE OF THESE GROUPS.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND,
AUTHORITIES CAN SEE A LOT OF
THAT TRAFFIC.
THEY CAN SEE WHEN PEOPLE ARE
GETTING IN TOUCH WITH
SOMEONE OVERSEAS WHO MIGHT
WANT TO HELP THEM TRAVEL.
SO YOU KNOW, IT IS -- THAT
IS THE BIG WORRY IS THESE
LONE WOLVES AS OPPOSED TO
KNOWN WOLVES AS LAW
ENFORCEMENT STARTED CALLING
THEM.
THE KNOWN WOLVES, AT LEAST,
THEY CAN SEE AND KEEP AN EYE
ON.
THE LONE WOLFS WHO MIGHT BE
RADICALIZED ABOUT THE
PROPAGANDA AND CARRY OUT AN
ATTACK HERE ARE THE BIG
WORRY FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S ALSO
CONCERNED THAT THE KNOWN
WOLVES LIST IS SO LARGE THAT
WE JUST DON'T HAVE THE
BODIES TO KEEP UP AND DO
SURVEILLANCE ON ALL THESE
POTENTIAL THREATS.
>> RIGHT.
I THINK IT'S HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS ON THE U.S.'S
TERRORIST LIST ALONE.
AND THE FEAR ALSO IS, YOU
KNOW, THE U.S. HAS ABOUT 150
PEOPLE WHO HAVE ATTEMPTED TO
TRAVEL OR TRAVELED IT TO
FIGHT IN SYRIA, NOT ALL FOR
ISIS BUT FOR VARIOUS GROUPS
THERE.
THE EUROPEANS, FOR WESTERNERS,
IT'S ABOUT 3,400 AND NOW
THAT'S A WORRY FOR LAW
ENFORCEMENT BECAUSE A LOT OF
THOSE PEOPLE ARE FROM
COUNTRIES THAT HAVE VISA
WAIVERS THAT CAN EASILY COME
TO THE U.S.
OR THEY CAN CARRY OUT
ATTACKS IN EUROPE IS SO IT'S
A MUCH BIGGER PROBLEM FOR
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND ALLIED
COUNTRIES AS WE SAW IN
FRANCE NOT TOO LONG AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS A
SHIFT IN LAW ENFORCEMENT
APPROACH.
WE WERE TALKING IN THE
NEWSROOM THIS MORNING T
ALMOST SEEMS LIKE THE
PRECRIME DIVISION FROM THE
MOVIE "MINORITY REPORT"
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT, BEFORE
YOU COMMIT A CRIME, STOPPING
YOU.
>> THIS HAS ACTUALLY BEEN
SOMEWHAT CONTROVERSY.
THIS USE OF INFORMANTS.
THE FBI HAS BEEN DOING THIS
TO SOME DEGREE SINCE NOT
LONG AFTER SEPTEMBER 11th.
A LOT OF THESE CASES, YOU
KNOW, THERE HAVE BEEN CASES
WHERE AN INFORMANT OR AN
UNDERCOVER FBI OPERATIVE
GETS IN TOUCH WITH SOMEONE
WHO APPEARS TO BE INTERESTED
IN DOING, CARRYING OUT SOME
SORT OF ATTACK.
AND REALLY WALKS THEM
THROUGH THE STEPS NECESSARY
TO GET THEM TO THE POINT
WHERE THEY'RE ALMOST IN
CERTAIN CASES HAVE THEIR
HAND ON THE TRIGGER OF WHAT
THEY THINK IS A BOMB, AS WE
SAW, FOR EXAMPLE, IN A CASE
IN CHICAGO.
AND ONCE THEY GO PUSH THAT
TRIGGER, IT TURNS OUT THAT
THE WHOLE THING IS A SET UP.
AND YOU KNOW, SOME OF THAT
HAS BEEN CONTROVERSIAL.
THE FBI SAYS THEY REALLY TRY
TO STAY-- THEY DO STAY ON
THE SIDE OF LETTING THE
TARGET, THE SUSPECT DRIVE
THE OPERATION.
BUT YOU KNOW, IT'S A VERY
CLOSE, FINE LINE BETWEEN
THAT AND ENTRAPMENT.
>> ALL RIGHT, ANDREW
GROSSMAN FROM "THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL," JOINING US
FROM WASHINGTON, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: WE TURN NOW TO
OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
THIEVES HAVE BEEN HITTING STATES
FROM CALIFORNIA TO PENNSYLVANIA
STEALING METAL.
IT'S A NATIONAL PROBLEM THAT'S
BECOME AN INCREASING THREAT TO
PUBLIC SAFETY.
THE THEFTS HAVE CAUSED BLACKOUTS
AND TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
IN THIS UPDATED SEGMENT THAT
ORIGINALLY AIRED IN JULY,
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT RICK KARR
TRAVELED TO OHIO WHERE A NEW
STATE LAW AIMS TO TACKLE THE
PROBLEM AND PREVENT THE THIEVES
FROM CASHING IN.
>> Reporter: ANGELA DAY'S
LANDLINE KEPT GOING DEAD IN
2012.
SHE DIDN'T HAVE A CELL PHONE SHE
COULD USE INSTEAD BECAUSE CELL
COVERAGE IS SPOTTY IN THE
APPALACHIAN REGION OF OHIO WHERE
SHE LIVES.
AND AT THE HOUSE WHERE SHE WAS
LIVING WITH HER DAUGHTER AND HER
PARENTS, THERE'S NO CELL SIGNAL
AT ALL.
SO WHENEVER SHE HAD TO BE AWAY
FROM HOME, SHE WORRIED
ESPECIALLY ABOUT HER FATHER.
>> HE HAD A HEART CONDITION, AND
HE HAD HAD SEVERAL OPEN-HEART
SURGERIES.
HE HAD TRIPLE-BYPASS SURGERY.
>> Reporter: A FEW DAYS AFTER
CHRISTMAS, HE SAID HE WASN'T
FEELING WELL.
>> HE CALLED OVER TO TALK TO A
NURSE, AND HE WAS HAVING
PROBLEMS WITH THE PHONE.
>> Reporter: HIS CONDITION
DETERIORATED, AND FINALLY HE
SAID HE NEEDED AN AMBULANCE. THE
FAMILY CALLED 9-1-1, BUT THE
LINE WAS SO BAD THAT THEY
FINALLY GAVE UP AND DAY'S
BROTHER RUSHED THEIR FATHER TO
DOCTORS.
BUT IT WAS TOO LATE.
HE DIED THAT EVENING.
>> IT WAS REALLY FRUSTRATING
CLOSE TO THE WHOLE WEEK
AFTERWARDS WE COULDN'T EVEN CALL
OUT TO PLAN THE FUNERAL.
WE COULDN'T EVEN CALL AND TELL
FAMILY THAT HE HAD PASSED.
I HAD TO GO TO MY WORKPLACE TO
USE THE PHONE TO EVEN CALL THE
FUNERAL HOME.
>> Reporter: ANGELA DAY'S PHONE
DIDN'T WORK BECAUSE THIEVES WERE
STEALING TELEPHONE WIRES ALL
OVER THE COUNTY.
IT'S ONE OF THE POOREST IN OHIO,
AND THE COPPER IN THE LINES WAS
VALUABLE.
THERE COULD BE HUNDREDS OF
DOLLARS WORTH IN THE CABLES
STRUNG BETWEEN TWO UTILITY
POLES.
AT THE TIME, THIEVES WERE
STEALING ALL KINDS OF METAL
THROUGHOUT OHIO: PARTS FROM FARM
EQUIPMENT AND ELECTRICAL
SUBSTATIONS, MANHOLE COVERS,
GRAVE MARKERS.
FOR FIVE YEARS RUNNING, THE
STATE HAS LED THE NATION IN
METAL THEFTS.
AND FROM ONE CORNER OF OHIO TO
ANOTHER, THIEVES HAVE PUT THE
PUBLIC IN DANGER.
ACCORDING TO POLICE HERE IN
AKRON, THERE WAS AN ACCIDENT ON
THAT INTERSTATE HIGHWAY BEHIND
ME BECAUSE OF AN ATTEMPT TO
STEAL COPPER WIRE FROM THE HIGH
TENSION LINES BEYOND IT.
THE WOULD-BE-THIEVES CLIMBED UP
AND CUT THE LINE SO IT DANGLED
OVER THE INTERSTATE UNDER
THOUSANDS OF VOLTS OF TENSION.
WHEN AN S.U.V. GOT TOO CLOSE,
THERE WAS A BRIGHT FLASH THAT
BLEW OUT THE WINDSHIELD AND
KNOCKED THE DRIVER UNCONSCIOUS.
THE DRIVER SURVIVED, BUT THIEVES
THEMSELVES AREN'T ALWAYS SO
LUCKY.
I'M STRUCK BY THE IDEA OF
SOMEBODY CLIMBING UP A UTILITY
POLE AND CUTTING SOMETHING LIKE
THIS DOWN.
I MEAN THIS IS GOING TO BE
CARRYING A LOT OF JUICE.
THIS IS GOING TO BE A DANGEROUS
CRIME TO COMMIT.
>> LET ME BE VERY CLEAR ON THIS.
WE HAVE PEOPLE DYING REGULARLY
FOR THIS.
>> Reporter: COMMANDER BOB
MEADER'S BEEN DEALING WITH METAL
THEFT FOR MORE THAN TWO DECADES
AS A COLUMBUS COP.
METAL PRICES HAVE COME DOWN
RECENTLY, BUT COPPER IS STILL
MORE THAN TWICE AS VALUABLE AS
IT WAS A DECADE AGO.
IN 2007, COLUMBUS BECAME THE
FIRST CITY IN THE STATE TO CRACK
DOWN ON METAL THEFT.
POLICE COULDN'T KEEP AN EYE ON
EVERY PIECE OF METAL THIEVES
MIGHT STEAL.
BUT THE CITY COULD MAKE IT
HARDER FOR THEM TO SELL IT.
>> WE KNOW THAT IT'S NOT GOING
TO GO TO THE CENTER OF THE CITY
AND PUT A SIGN OUT AND SAY, "I
HAVE SCRAP METAL FOR SALE."
THERE'S ONE LOCATION IN THE
STATE OF OHIO, AND THROUGHOUT
THE UNITED STATES, THAT THEY CAN
GET MONEY FOR IT, AND THAT IS A
SCRAP YARD.
>> Reporter: COLUMBUS ENACTED A
NEW ORDINANCE REQUIRING SCRAP
YARDS TO FOLLOW RULES A LOT LIKE
THE ONES THAT APPLY TO THE
CITY'S PAWN SHOPS.
SCRAP DEALERS HAVE TO CHECK
EVERY CUSTOMER'S I.D. AGAINST AN
ONLINE DATABASE OF CONVICTED
THIEVES, WHO MIGHT BE TRYING TO
SELL WHAT THEY'VE STOLEN.
DEALERS HAVE TO RECORD EVERY
DETAIL OF EVERY PURCHASE THEY
MAKE SO THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT CAN
INVESTIGATE THEFTS.
COLUMBUS OFFICIALS SAY THOSE
STEPS ARE HELPING TO REDUCE
METAL THEFTS.
LAST MONTH, THERE WERE ONLY 57
THEFTS REPORTED IN THE CITY,
COMPARED TO MORE THAN 100 A YEAR
AGO.
OHIO LEGISLATORS DECIDED TO
IMPLEMENT WHAT COLUMBUS DID
STATEWIDE.
THE NEW LAW FULLY KICKED IN LAST
MONTH.
NOW, MORE THAN 400 SCRAP YARDS
FROM CLEVELAND TO CINCINNATI TO
TOLEDO ARE REQUIRED TO RECORD
EVERY CUSTOMER'S INFORMATION IN
A LAW ENFORCEMENT DATABASE, AND
CHECK TO SEE IF THEIR NAMES ARE
ON A LIST OF MORE THAN A QUARTER
MILLION CONVICTION RECORDS.
OHIO SCRAP DEALER JOSH JOSEPH
SAYS WHEN COLUMBUS CRACKED DOWN,
THIEVES WENT TO SCRAP YARDS
OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS.
NOW THAT THE WHOLE STATE IS
CRACKING DOWN, THEY'LL JUST GO
TO SCRAP YARDS ACROSS THE STATE
LINE.
>> FOR SOMEONE TO STEAL IT,
DRIVE SOMEPLACE WHERE THEY KNOW
THERE ARE REALLY LAX LAWS OR
LAXED ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAWS,
AND SELL IT, IS A REALLY EASY
THING TO HAPPEN.
THE UNIFORMITY OF THE LAW, THE
UNIFORMITY OF THE WAY THAT IT IS
ENFORCED FROM AN INDUSTRY
PERSPECTIVE, WE SEE AS PARAMOUNT
TO THE SUCCESS OF THE LAW.
>> Reporter: JOSEPH HAS A LOT OF
OTHER CONCERNS ABOUT THE LAW.
FOR ONE THING, HE WORRIES ABOUT
WHAT THE COST OF COMPLYING WITH
IT WILL DO TO FAMILY-OWNED SMALL
BUSINESSES IN THE INDUSTRY.
>> IT'S ANYWHERE FROM PROBABLY
$20,000 OR $30,000 UP TO
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
DOLLARS.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE SPENT SIX
FIGURES TO, TO MAINTAIN,
UPGRADE, AND TRAIN OUR PEOPLE IN
ORDER TO BE COMPLIANT.
>> Reporter: AND TRAINING MIGHT
NOT BE ENOUGH TO KEEP SOME
EMPLOYEES HONEST.
HOW CAN YOU BE SURE THAT IF
SOMEBODY STEALS, SAY, A BUNCH OF
COPPER WIRE, BRINGS IT IN, SLIPS
ONE OF YOUR EMPLOYEES $100
BUCKS, HOW DO YOU ENSURE THAT
YOUR EMPLOYEE'S NOT SUSCEPTIBLE
TO THAT?
>> I WOULD SAY THAT OUR
EMPLOYEES ARE SUSCEPTIBLE TO
THAT.
WE THINK WE'VE HAD SOME
INSTANCES OF THAT HAPPENING IN
THE PAST.
>> Reporter: HAVE YOU EVER HAD
TO FIRE ANYBODY?
>> WE HAVE.
>> Reporter: THERE COULD ALSO BE
CONSEQUENCES TO THE ENVIRONMENT,
ACCORDING TO SCRAP DEALERS.
THEY'RE IN THE RECYCLING
BUSINESS.
THE METAL THEY TAKE IN GETS
MELTED DOWN AND REUSED.
THE LAW IN OHIO MAKES IT A CRIME
FOR SCRAP DEALERS TO BUY CERTAIN
ITEMS UNLESS SELLERS CAN PROVE
SOMETHING'S THEIRS TO SELL,
ELECTRICAL LINES, FOR INSTANCE,
AND TELEPHONE CABLES.
BUT THE LIST ALSO INCLUDES ITEMS
HOMEOWNERS MIGHT BRING IN.
AND THAT COULD END UP IN A
LANDFILL IF A SCRAP DEALER
REFUSES IT TO STAY ON THE SAFE
SIDE OF THE LAW, ACCORDING TO
ROBIN WEINER, WHO RUNS THE SCRAP
INDUSTRY'S WASHINGTON-BASED
TRADE GROUP.
>> I'VE GOTTEN E-MAILS FROM
CITIZENS WHO'VE COMPLAINED THAT
THEY'VE GONE TO ONE OF OUR
MEMBERS AND THE MEMBERS, AND
THEN THE MEMBER ASKED FOR PROOF
OF OWNERSHIP AND THEY DON'T HAVE
THAT.
YOU KNOW, HOW ARE THEY GOING TO,
THEY WANT TO DO THE RIGHT THING
AND RECYCLE.
>> Reporter: JOSH JOSEPH'S
FAMILY'S BEEN IN THE SCRAP
BUSINESS FOR FOUR GENERATIONS.
HE DOESN'T LIKE HIS BUSINESS
BEING COMPARED TO A PAWN SHOP.
AND HE'S NOT SURE HIS INDUSTRY
SHOULD HAVE TO BEAR THE BURDEN
OF CRACKING DOWN ON METAL
THIEVES.
THIEVES WILL KEEP STEALING
METAL, ACCORDING TO ANGELA DAY,
AS LONG AS IT'S VALUABLE.
A COUPLE OF MONTHS AFTER HER
FATHER DIED, POLICE ARRESTED TWO
MEN WHO WERE CHARGED WITH
STEALING PHONE LINES, INCLUDING
THE ONE THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIALS SAY AFFECTED THE CALL
TO 9-1-1 THE DAY HER FATHER
DIED.
SHE'D KNOWN ONE OF THE MEN AS A
KID.
AND SHE UNDERSTANDS WHAT
MOTIVATED THE CRIMES.
>> GROWING UP HERE YOU REALIZE
HOW DESPERATE PEOPLE ARE AND HOW
MUCH IN NEED THIS AREA IS.
I MEAN, THERE'S NOT A LOT OF
RESOURCES.
THEY'RE STILL GOING TO BE
STEALING THINGS.
I MEAN, THAT'S JUST A PART OF
LIFE.
I DON'T CARE WHERE YOU LIVE IN
THE UNITED STATES.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE THAT.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE PEOPLE
DESPERATE OR STEALING, TO MAKE
YOU KNOW, TO SURVIVE.
>> Reporter: BOTH MEN ARE
SERVING PRISON TERMS FOR
STEALING THE TELEPHONE LINES.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW MUCH CAN YOU
LEGALLY MAKE SCRAPPING METAL?
VISIT pbs.org/newshour FOR
ANSWERS.
SOME CUTTING-EDGE RESEARCH IS
GIVING NEW HOPE TO CANCER
PATIENTS.
RESEARCHERS ARE ZEROING IN ON
THE CAUSES OF SPECIFIC CANCERS
AND ARE FINDING DRAMATICALLY
DIFFERENT WAYS TO FIGHT THE
DISEASE.
TO EXPLAIN THE LATEST FINDINGS,
I'M JOINED BY DR. DAVID HYMAN,
AN ONCOLOGIST WITH MEMORIAL
SLOAN KETTERING CANCER CENTER.
SO AS WE TALK ABOUT CANCER,
AS WE TALK ABOUT HOPE, LET'S
JUST KIND OF CLARIFY, WHAT
IS THE CURRENT WAY WE TREAT
CANCERS AND WHAT ARE SOME OF
THESE NEW STUDIES SHOWING?
>>.
>> THE HISTORIC WAYS THAT
WE'VE ALWAYS TREATED CANCERS
IS TREATING THEM BASED ON
THE ORGAN THEY COME FROM.
SO TREATING PATIENTS WITH
BREAST CANCER OR COLON
CANCER OR LUNG CANCER
IDENTICALLY AM WHAT THESE ARE
ASKING IS WHETHER WE CAN TARGET
SPECIFIC MUTATIONS WHICH ARE
MYSTICS IN THE GENES THAT
ARISE IN TUMORS AND TREAT
THEM THE SAME EVEN IF THEY
COME FROM DIFFERENT ORGANS.
SO WE RECOGNIZE THAT THERE
ARE CERTAIN MUTATIONS THAT
WE FIND-- WE FIND ACROSS
MULTIPLE DISEASE TYPES.
AND SO ONE QUESTION IS CAN
WE REALLY START TO THINK
ABOUT THESE DISEASES AS
DISEASES HARBORING MUTATION
A OR B RATHER THAN LUNG
CANCERS OR COLON CANCERS.
>> AND SO HOW EFFECTIVE ARE
THESE DRUGS WHEN THEY TARGET
A SPECIFIC MUTATION INSTEAD
OF A SPECIFIC REGION OF THE
BODY THAT THE CANCER IS
COMING FROM?
>> THEY CAN BE VERY
DRAMATICALLY EFFECTIVE IN
WAYS THAT ARE REALLY
PREVIOUSLY UNPRECEDENTED.
SO WE KNOW, FOR EXAMPLE, IN
LUNG CANCERS, CHEMOTHERAPY
HAS A RESPONSE RATED BEST IN
OT 30% RANGE.
WE HAVE CERTAIN MEDICINES
NOW THAT TARGET CERTAIN
MUTATIONS IN LUNG CANCER
WHERE THE MAJORITY OF
PATIENTS HAVE BENEFITTED AND
THEIR TUMORS SHRINK.
SO WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO DO
IS TAKE THOSE EARLY
SUCCESSES IN LUNG CANCER,
MELANOMA AND NOW EXTEND
THOSE TO THE LARGER VARIETY
OF CANCERS THAT WE SEE.
>> SO HOW MUCH OF THE SEA
CHANGE IS THIS?
I MEAN WHEN YOU THINK B AS
WE BEGAN THIS CONVERSATION,
IN MY OWN HEAD I WAS
THINKING LUNG CANCER, BREAST
CANCER, COLON CANCER, JUST
LIKE YOU SAID.
NOW ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT A
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT
APPROACH TO EVEN LOOKING AT
AND LEARNING THESE CANCERS
AND SAYING HERE IS WHAT
MAKES YOU, YOU.
>> HERE IS WHAT MAKES THIS
CANCER QUICK OR GROW.
IT'S A REALLY BIG CHANGE IN
THE WAY THAT WE THINK ABOUT
CANCER.
IT REALLY IS THIS IDEA OF
PRECISION MEDICINE, YOU KNOW,
NOT TREATING ALL PATIENTS
THE SAME BUT TREATING THEIR
INDIVIDUAL CANCERS BASED ON
REALLY DETAILED ANALYSIS.
AND I THINK IT REALLY
REPRESENTS A SEA CHANGE.
AND I DON'T WANT TO GIVE THE
IMPRESSION THAT THE ORGAN
WHICH THE CANCER ARISES HAS
NO IMPORTANCE.
AND WHAT WE HAVE ACTUALLY
SEEN IN THESE STUDIES IS
THAT CERTAIN CANCER TYPES
MAY NOT RESPOND THE SAME.
SO A COLON CANCER THAT HAS
A-- MUTATION MAY NOT RESPOND
AS A MELANOMA WITH A B WRAP
MUTATION SO I THINK IT'S A
COMBINATION OF UNDERSTANDING
THE GENETICS IN THE CANCERS
THAT WE TREAT, AND ALSO
UNDERSTANDING THE EFFECT OF
THE ORGAN WHERE THEY COME
FROM.
>> Sreenivasan: THESE
CLINICAL TRIALS, ARE THEY
DIFFERENT THAN THE CLINICAL
TRIALS WE ARE USED TO WHERE
PUN PERSON GETS THE PLACEBO
AND THEY MIGHT OR MIGHT NOT
IMPROVE AND THE OTHER GETS
THE REAL DRUG?
>> I THINK THEY ARE
DIFFERENT IN A VARIETY OF
WAYS.
NUMBER ONE, MOST CLINICAL
TRIALS IN CANCER HAVE
REQUIRED SPECIFIC DISEASE
TYPES.
SO EVERYONE THAT GOES ON
THAT TRIAL HAS ONE TYPE OF
CANCER.
THE CLINICAL TRIALS THAT
WE'RE DOING NOW, SO THE
CALLED BASKET STUDIES, ALLOW
PATIENTS FROM ANY TYPE OF
CANCER TO PARTICIPATE, AS
LONG AS THEY HAVE A MUTATION
IN THEIR TUMOR THAT WE THINK
SUGGESTS THEY WOULD BENEFIT
FROM THE DRUG BEING TESTED.
THE OTHER POINT IS THAT
THESE TRIALS ARE TYPICALLY
NOT RANDOMIZED TRIALS.
MEANING THAT EVERYBODY THAT
PARTICIPATES GETS THE DRUG.
WE KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THEY'RE
GETTING.
AND THE REASON FOR THAT IS
THAT THE BENEFIT THAT WE'RE
LOOKING FOR IN THE FORM OF
WHAT PERCENTAGE OF PATIENTS
HAVE SIGNIFICANT SHRINKAGE
OF THEIR TUMOR, IS SO HIGH,
THAT IT'S PREVIOUSLY
UNPRECEDENTED FOR THOSE
DISEASES.
SO WE DON'T REALLY NEED TO
DO RANDOMIZED STUDIES
BECAUSE IF HALF OF THE
PATIENTS OR MORE ARE HAVING
SHRINKAGE OF THEIR TUMOR,
THERE IS REALLY NO QUESTION
THAT THAT TREATMENT IS
BETTER THAN THE ESTABLISHED
CARE.
>> Sreenivasan: DR. DAVID
HYMAN, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: BEFORE WE LEAVE
YOU TONIGHT, MINNIE MINOSO,
KNOWN AS THE "CUBAN COMET" HAS
DIED.
MINOSO MADE HIS BASEBALL DEBUT
IN CLEVELAND IN 1949 AND WAS
LATER TRADED TO THE CHICAGO
WHITE SOX.
MINOSO PLAYED FOR 17 SEASONS,
WAS A NINE-TIME ALL-STAR AND WON
THREE GOLD GLOVES, BUT HE NEVER
MADE THE HALL OF FAME.
MINOSO WAS 90 YEARS OLD.
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR
TOMORROW, THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT GOES BACK TO THE SUPREME
COURT THIS WEEK.
AT STAKE ARE SUBSIDIES FOR
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE TO STATES
THAT RELY ON THE FEDERAL HEALTH
INSURANCE EXCHANGE.
>> I NEED THIS SUBSIDY.
THIS IS WHAT MAKES ME BE
ABLE TO SUBSIST.
AND IT'S JUST NO WAY I COULD
FUNCTION WITHOUT IT.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S IT
FOR THIS EDITION OF PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.